In the cyber world, computer users have faced
certain types of threat such as worms, spyware,
phishing, viruses, and other malware. Ransomeware
is an extortion scheme whereby attackers hijack and
encrypt the victim’s computer files and then demand
a ransom from the victim for these files in original
condition. We thereby define ransomware as a piece
of pernicious software that exploits a user’s computer vulnerabilities to sneak into the victim’s computer and encrypt his or her files; then the attacker
keeps the files locked unless the victim agrees to
pay a ransom. In a typical ransomware attack, the
attacker reaches into a compromised computer by
seeking the exposed system vulnerabilities. If this
system was victimized earlier by a worm or Trojan, the attacker can easily enter the weakly configured system. He then searches for various types of
important files with such extension names as .txt,
.doc, .rft, .ppt, .chm, .cpp, .asm, .db, .db1, .dbx, .cgi,
.dsw, .gzip, .zip, .jpg, .key, .mdb, .pgp .pdf. Knowing
these files are of possible crucial importance to the
victims, he then encrypts these files, making them
impossible for the victim or owner to access them.
Later, the attacker sends the victim an email ransom
or pop-up window demanding for the encryption
key that unlocks the frozen files.
Once the attacker locates these files, there are
several processing strategies he might implement.
First, he can compress all the located files into a
password-protected zip package, then remove the
original files; second, he can individually encrypt
each located file and then remove the original files.
For example, if the original file is “DissertationFinalVersion.doc”, ransomware will create a file such as
“Encrypted_DissertationFinalVersion.doc” in order
to label the original file; third, the attacker might
create a hidden folder and move all the located files
to this folder, producing a pseudophase to deceive
the victim. The third strategy, of course, carries the
slightest damage and is comparatively feasible for
victim to retrieve all the “lost” files.
Furthermore, when ransomware attacks successfully take control of an enterprise’s data, the attacker
encrypts the data using sophisticated algorithm. The
password to the encryption is only released if ransom is paid to the attackers carrying out the attack.
The attacker usually notifies the victim by means of
a striking message (Figure 1), which carries specific
instructions as to how the victim reacts to retrieve
the lost files. A text file (Figure 2) or pop-up window message is generally created in the same folder
where files are encrypted. The text file or message
box clearly indicates that all the important files are
already encrypted and informs the victim of specific
money remittance methods. A ransomware message
example in the short form could look like this:
Pay $10.99 via Western Union otherwise you will
keep getting this screen.
One file per 30 minutes will be deleted from the
hard drive. Deleted files will be restored when
you have paid up and entered the proper unlock
code.